In the previous video, we already create topology
with 2 router, now in this video we are going to
configure ospf in this topology. The concept of
ospf is same as eigrp, which is each router must
advertise their connected network. So for example
here router 1 must be have 2 connected network,
which is 10.10.10.0/24 connected to fa0/0,
and 192.168.1.0/24 connected to fa0/1.
Router 2 must be have 2 connected network,
10.10.10.0/24 connected to fa0/0 and
192.168.2.0/24 connected to fa0/1.
So router 1 and router 2 must advertise 2 network.
Let’s start configuring router 1, the
command is router ospf, if we use eigrp,
we must define autonomous system number,
but in ospf, we must define ospf process id.
Here let’s exit first.
And then router ospf and question mark, here we
can see that we need to define ospf process id.
In the eigrp, the autonomous system number
must be same on all routers, but in ospf,
because this is only ospf process id, so
the number can be different in each router.
Let’s say in router 1, we use router
ospf 1, in router 2 we use router ospf 2,
and in router 3 we use router
ospf 3, this is will work.
Or if we use same ospf process id
in all router, this is also work.
Okay, let’s say here we use 1,
Next we need to advertise all of connected
network. Let’s advertise 10.10.10.0/24,
so network 10.10.10.0, in the eigrp, the command
is just like this and we can enter, but in ospf,
we need to add some argument, question mark,
Here we need to define wildcard bits,
what is wildcard bits? Wildcard
bits is the reverse of subnetmask.
We know that for prefix /24,
the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0.
And then, to calculate wildcard bits, the
formula is 255.255.255.255 minus by subnetmask.
In this case, the prefix is /24, and the
subnetmask for prefix /24 is 255.255.255.0.
So here 255 minus by 0 is 255,
255 minus by 255 is 0,
255 minus by 255 is 0 and 255
minus by 255 again is also 0.
So the wildcard bits for prefix /24 is 0.0.0.255
Okay, this is how we calculate wildcard bits.
Now let’s back to the configuration,
so here the wildcard bits is 0.0.0.255. And then
question mark again, here we need to define area,
and then question mark, we must define the
area number. For now, let’s just use area 0.
Okay now we have done
advertise network 10.10.10.0.
Next, let’s advertise the
network that connected to pc 1.
So here, network 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.255 area 0.
Okay now we have done configuring ospf on
router 1, next let’s configure on router 2.
Enable, configure terminal, and
then router ospf, remember that
here we need to define ospf process id, and
ospf process id doesn’t have to be same.
In the router 1 we use process id 1,
let’s say here we will use process id 2.
Next, let’s advertise the network,
network 10.10.10.0 0.0.0.255 area 0.
Next let’s advertise the network that connected
to pc 2, so network 192.168.2.0 0.0.0.255 area 0.
Okay now we have done configuring
ospf on router 1 and router 2.
Let’s verify it, do show ip ospf neighbor,
here we can see that now we have ospf neighbor,
and the status is full. This
is means that the ospf is UP.
Let’s also check the routing table, do show
ip route, here we can see that from router 2,
we have route to 192.168.1.0/24,
the label is O, this is means ospf.
Let’s also check on router 1, do show ip route,
here we can see that router 1 also have a
route to 192.168.2.0/24 and the label is o.
So now pc 1 and pc 2 should be able to communicate
each others. Let’s try, failed, let’s test again,
and here success.
Okay so now we have done
configuring dynamic routing ospf.
I think enough for this video, in the next video,
we are going to add 1 more router to our topology.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video.